
Switch:
Physical Interface/Connectivity Issues: 
Interface is down/down – This means it’s not receiving keepalives and it’s not physically connected
Interface is up/down – Meaning, it’s physically up but the Layer 2 protocol is down
Interface is administratively down
Check your cabling. Always start by assuming the problem is with the cable. Swap with a known good cable. This may not be the case all the time, but in some instances, you might have to substitute the crossover cable. It may not have the auto-MDIX crossover function, so you may actually have to do something manually.You can also verify that the hardware is functional. You can use the show controllers command to see if there’s something physically wrong with it, or try a different port on the switch to see if the same problem is happening.
Check your interface. Verify that the interface is operational and use the no shutdown command. That would take care of “administratively down” cases or if it’s been put into error-disabled state by one of the Layer 2 protocols and so forth.ace/Connectivity Issues: \nInterface is down/down – This means it’s not receiving keepalives and it’s not physically connected \nInterface is up/down – Meaning, it’s physically up but the Layer 2 protocol is down \nInterface is administratively down \nCheck your cabling. Always start by assuming the problem is with the cable. Swap with a known good cable. This may not be the case all the time, but in some instances, you might have to substitute the crossover cable. It may not have the auto-MDIX crossover function, so you may actually have to do something manually.You can also verify that the hardware is functional. You can use the show controllers command to see if there’s something physically wrong with it, or try a different port on the switch to see if the same problem is happening. \nCheck your interface. Verify that the interface is operational and use the no shutdown command. That would take care of “administratively down” cases or if it’s been put into error-disabled state by one of the Layer 2 protocols and so forth.